Speaker 1 (00:00):
To improve the city, um, with concrete goals and objectives. Um, so when we wrote the hackathon, we had a wonderful session. Uh, Ryan had a, a great brainstorming session with some, some colleagues, um, and as the mayor indicated, that was a session. We had such a good time that we just felt like something great was coming along. But then we had to define actual problems that we have in the city. Uh, some of you already mentioned that we, there are problem, there's problems in every city or challenges in every city. Um, but which ones did we want to put that are, are measurable, quantifiable, um, and fun to invent against? Um, so innovation in this area is key for you all, um, to solve what seems like very simple problems. Let's be honest, working in city Hall, I've worked there for 10 years. It's not exciting <laugh>.
Speaker 1 (00:45):
It really isn't. Um, there's exciting times. Um, but by and large, when someone walks into city Hall or our service center at the south side or calls one of our, our, uh, agents, uh, whether it be in the Department of Public Utilities, um, in our, uh, one of our other 47 agencies, there's nothing glorious about government work. But that doesn't mean you can't bring innovation to it. Um, what's really interesting as both the prior administration, the current administration has a, a theme of, just 'cause we've always done it this way, doesn't mean we need to just 'cause our part, our peer localities in Henrico and Chesterfield are across the commonwealth of the world. Just 'cause it's done this way doesn't mean we have to continue to do it that way. And that's what we're here to challenge you to do. Um, the two, we have two very clear problem statements, and then we have four that are called Blue sky.
Speaker 1 (01:35):
Um, these are, you know, reach out there and, and wow us find something to solve, uh, to, to bring to the city or to the community as a whole. Don't limit yourself to the concept that these are city services. Just 'cause it's in City Hall doesn't mean it's a city service. Um, we have city services through partner, uh, partners in the community. VCU being one of them. Um, RVHA. Those are all partners in the community that this city is here to work with. We have neighborhoods across, was it four 30 something? How many neighborhoods are there in the city now? Hey, there's a number of distinct ones. If you walk in the city hall, you can see 'em all written out on the glass that's there. Um, so any questions on what the pillar is meant to be for, uh, a driving city hall? Wonderful.
Speaker 1 (02:20):
I can't tell. I'm not a great public speaker. I usually live literally in the basement of city Hall doing my job day in and day out. Uh, so if you catch me in a pause, please forgive me. Um, the first pillar of error, the first problem statement we'll go to in detail, and if you don't mind, I'll kind of flip back and forth on there. We have two clear problems. The first one is helping residents find the right city service for a next step. Um, as I mentioned, there's over 47, 48 now. I think agencies performing services on behalf of or for our citizens, uh, visitors and businesses. Each one of those has a unique workflow. There's no unified way to make, uh, creating a new gas billing account and troubleshooting a cybersecurity attack. There's no way to make that uniform. There's no way to inform the citizen of a uniform approach.
Speaker 1 (03:11):
Um, so what the challenge, the basic here basis here is that we have a wealth of information. We have traditional websites, r rva gov, Richmond gasworks, uh, RVA 3 1 1, which is a really great, um, uh, trouble ticketing and workflow management system meant to serve as that middleware, if you will, um, to take a simple citizen request and give it to the right agency for completion. The, the challenge we have often face is the disparate ways in which that problem might get solved. We might receive a FOIA request, which are direct emails, phone calls, or tickets that have a timetable of five days. I don't know if you're familiar with what FOIA is. Uh, five days. You have five days to form a response to the every single one. It might be very, very small. It might be very, very large. It might be something lengthy like a permit request.
Speaker 1 (03:57):
Uh, I'm gonna put you on the spot, Dan. How many steps did we find our could be in a permit request through our, our research? Uh, a lot of them. A lot of them. So, uh, Dan Logons, our, our data and AI program manager at the city. Um, and I lean heavily on him to do some of these, uh, use cases that, that we're exploring internally. Um, there, there be months of research that goes into that. The citizen, the visitor, the the resident, the, uh, business shouldn't need to see all that. They just want to go to a site. You can optimize a website all you want. You can use any search engine you want. You can throw a public box at the problem, but they're never accurate. They're never succinct. They don't give you a true picture of, here's steps one through Z. They give you every step of the way.
Speaker 1 (04:44):
Um, so the challenge for, uh, getting, uh, finding our city services or next step is to provide a service, a solution. Again, technology is great. I love technology. People are involved here. If you walk into City hall, how do I find the right service? You go to another person. Okay, hopefully they're helpful. If I'm, uh, across the country and planning my visit to Richmond, well, obviously we're gonna use things like rva.gov. We're gonna use RVA 3 1 1. But if I want to ask one succinct question at, at, and get multiple answers that are all correct and leave me the path that I want, how can we solve it? Um, be mindful that there are constraints. And I believe all of this is captured in the GitHub repository or the pillar. Um, but if you, if any of those are not clear, you haven't looked at them, please feel free to ask them.
Speaker 1 (05:38):
You must work with only existing city systems. That's rva.gov and RVA 3 1 1. We're keeping our scope limited. It must rely on verified city information only. That's what's been provided to you or from those two sources. So if you can mine it from the GitHub repository, if you can mine it from rva.gov or if you can get it through RVA three one.com, those are your sources. So that's verified Citi data. Uh, you must avoid, uh, confidently answering a question when that there is no confidence, right? So in the modern era with novel technologies, you have a 85% chance of having a proper answer. Is that confident? Is that not? Can you disclose that? Right? Can you say, I'm sorry, I don't know how to answer that question. I have to do that all the time. My boss asks me questions on the spot. Uh, when I, I met the city council the other day and they asked me a question. I said, I'm sorry. I don't know the answer to that. Let me go find it. That's the discretion we're looking for here. And most of you might be taking your, your mind to a check bot or something like that, and that's fine. Um, but that's not the only solutions that are available to us.
Speaker 1 (06:42):
Lastly, as I mentioned, we have over 47 agencies. We also have double that of unique systems. Each agency must rely upon in order to do their day-to-day job. Um, that's a problem in itself. I'm not asking you to solve that problem, but what I'm saying is if you add just another system that's, that's, um, city employees have to use, number one, I'm gonna have to quash a rebellion. Um, and number two, you're adding burden to the city. When you add burden, you add additional expense. When you add additional expense, our mayor has to justify tax dollars that we don't want to invest. So the last, uh, constraint is it must reduce the staff burden. So think of your this self as, uh, inward and outward, right? We wanna make it easier for the user to interface with the city, but we also wanna make the city's delivery more consistent and easier on the staff.
Speaker 1 (07:33):
The more easy you make it, the more consistent it becomes. So those are your constraints. Um, what does success mean? Well, I'm out of a job. Part of my job is innovation in this area. So go ahead and feel free to do that for me. Um, uh, success would mean residents can describe their issue in plain language of their choosing. I'll be mindful of that. Um, and receive the right next step. It might be one, it might be 20. How many can you do? More requests are routed correctly. And that's very specific. And I think in the GitHub repository, it walks you through the various types of requests that are made in our RBA 3 1 1 system. This is made for all requests that are made of the city. Um, there are many types, many of which overlap. Um, the, our favorite example is the pothole sinkhole, um, damaged road or damaged sidewalk all intersect.
Speaker 1 (08:25):
If you do a Venn diagram, it's almost a perfect circle. Um, and we can't expect a citizen or a visitor to know what that is, especially maybe while they're driving and reporting it. Um, so maybe make that easier to understand. Um, less residents are forced to guess which category goes. And these things need to be clear again, that that GitHub repository gives you some good example. You get an idea of what I'm talking about here as to there's un uh, there's lack of clarity in how those are. And, and it's not for lack of trying. Um, we have a wonderful department over at 3 1 1. Um, and actually Pete sends his regards, he couldn't make it today. The director there is that, um, they do a great job of being as concise as possible, but the reality is the Department of Public Utilities, public works, parks and one other all have to do with that sinkhole or bottle.
Speaker 1 (09:10):
That's how complex government services are. Um, we also wanna have less staff time redirecting routine requests. Uh, someone brought up earlier the water crisis. We had the exact same question asked thousands of times during the water crisis as to where can I get fresh water? When will this be over? Every single one of those was manually responded to by an RVA 3 1 1 or DPU customer service representative that was very labor intensive. Make that easier. Um, lastly, a a side benefit would be the city gains insight into where website content or service pathways are failing, right? So I highlighted a few examples. Go find as many as you can and make that easier. Um, a great example of that, I may or may not be in the GitHub, so hopefully I'm not showing my cards, is the application for, um, uh, signing up for gas services requires you to send SPII over an email. Don't do that. Please, please don't ever do that. Um, but it's actually a gap in our processes. So if we can highlight that through volume, that would be a means of success.
Speaker 1 (10:18):
Um, again, those data sets for this problem statement are found within the GitHub repository. Uh, there's historical data for RVA through and one, um, such as the actual cases that were submitted and maybe their outcomes, which may have some notes on there that say, um, this was not the right ticket type, or this was the right ticket type. There's the actual ticket types of RVA three and one and their descriptions. Um, so it gives you an idea of what there are. Maybe, maybe you can recommend more. Um, there's an incident schema, so the map of all those ticket types, and then there's some RTS map layers, I think in there that'll help you understand how these are reported geographically. Again, the constraints here are not to solve just those problems. You can add success criteria. Um, my favorite, and this is a pipe dream, is that someone can walk into city hall and we already know what accounts they have, um, what they may be here for.
Speaker 1 (11:09):
Predictive analytics are the way for the future. Um, I'm sure our police chief would love to know if they have a warrant for the arrest. Please don't do that. That's invasion of privacy. Um, but think outside the box. Don't forget that these are not just web centric users. Uh, rba.gov on average has about 300 people who go to it. 300 days. That includes bots. Not many more. RBA 3 1 1 gets thousands of requests on a daily basis. What about, um, someone who's technically deliberate port lacks access to technology. What about someone who doesn't speak English as their first language? That's a good portion of, of our, our customers. Um, what about the city employee who is also a contractor and a citizen of the, of Virginia? Right? These things get very, very complex. Um, and we need to be able to set those lines, barriers and delivery mechanisms that overcome all of those things. Okay.
Speaker 2 (12:04):
Uh,
Speaker 1 (12:05):
I think that's pretty much covers that problem statement. Can I answer any questions on what it means to find the right city service or next step for someone visiting City hall, virtual City Hall or visiting? Yes. Um, if there is a problem on a website, like say like a link is broken or some information needs to be updated, um, how does that get reported and how does that get resolved?
Speaker 2 (12:30):
Ultimately,
Speaker 1 (12:32):
Um,
Speaker 1 (12:34):
You could solve that problem that that could be part of your success criteria. So there's a number of historical and traditional ways to do that. Maybe there's a better way to do that as well, um, to do, highlight that as one of the success criteria. There's not currently a good process for, oh, there's certainly processes for it. Okay. Um, you can go visit organic go if you actually see the, the way to do that. I don't wanna go too much in detail because I might, might disrupt someone else's plan of ness. So appreciate that. Any other questions on helping at city Hall or helping services at City?
Speaker 2 (13:05):
Um, you've mentioned something about foer. Um, sure. Uh, could you elaborate a bit around, you know, there are different request types. They all might have different service level agreements in terms of turnaround time, status updates. Um, is that data available somewhere?
Speaker 1 (13:21):
It should all be available if your rv.gov or associated links within there or within the dataset. Okay. There's actually very few services that have an SLAA hard and fast one, but you may be able to gain insight into the normal times of resolution from both the date ticket dataset as well as rv.gov and associated information. There's a wealth of information on that website. Um, some of it, again, might be more subjective and not give a firm five day response. But the example I gave you, uh, nothing in the City of Richmond's data sets will tell you of that five day response. That's a state law. Um, so these are things that we all have to be mindful of, um, but we're constraining to only verified city sources. Okay. Does that answer your question? Yes. Wonderful.
Speaker 2 (14:06):
Do the data sets, data sets capture like walkin? Because you mentioned, uh, RVA <inaudible> was like 300 hits, right? Do you get like tracking on
Speaker 1 (14:16):
Very little that actually captures walk-in or non-electronic traffic? That's an excellent point. Um, so it's very difficult to capture that traffic. Um, if we could bring a security guard or information desk in here, if they could tell you those, most of those are not logged as our gate, um, through oh one requests. Um, and I don't believe that's captured in any of the data sets you have there. You may have to make an educated case not to copy. Um, they could be, but they won't be explicitly called out, right? So in a lot of cases, like if they call in, a citizen can submit their own request, but they can also call into three one one and somebody on the phone would submit a similar with walk-ins. They have service reps that may be inputting that information as a ticket, but it's not tagging that this was a walk-in request necessarily. Okay. So the information may be there, but it won't be split up in that way. So I I, it might be wise to 2000 educated guess, um, based on citizen, based on foot traffic. I can't give you any power and fast numbers. Yep. Okay, good. Great question then. Anything else on citizen services?
Speaker 1 (15:18):
Okay, now if anyone has coffee, I'm gonna tell you, take a swig right now before we give 'em this next one because it's gonna give the real government worker pain. Uh, if you, has anyone here ever worked in civic service? You have, okay? Yeah. You have <laugh>. Has anyone, uh, purchased something under their authority working instead? Civic service? Ah, we have one.
Speaker 3 (15:41):
Well, I worked for Eva, so, okay. Yeah, that's the data that Eva, it was fun.
Speaker 1 (15:46):
All right, I'll challenge you one more. Have you ever bought something outside of eva?
Speaker 3 (15:50):
Oh yeah, I've had to. Yeah. Well, being the data scientist I had to experience all through the basket cup. I had to like get through these different Thank you. Yep.
Speaker 1 (15:57):
Um, making a legal best price, best ever effort. Um, and recurring purchase in any form of government, unless you work directly for Vida, directly for GSA or you work through evo is one of the most difficult tasks we have to do. Um, government contracts or procurement contracts will be in the hundreds of pages. Um, not often are those of us who are charged. I'm one of those, I have to do this very personal to me. So if you like me and I appreciate any work you do on this, um, we have to know every word of that before we even bring it to our attorneys. And then whenever we make the procurement, we have to make sure that the procurement is still in alignment with the terms of that contract, child contracts, price lists, discount codes, and the product we're trying to buy, which in technology is usually different by the time we finish that process.
Speaker 1 (16:54):
Moreover, we usually have to buy the same product the following year and following years they're issued under a city or a state contract. Um, and those terms may change the source of those terms. The RFP may change. So the next problem statement is to help city staff review upcoming procurement risks and opportunities. Um, what that means, how can we use technology or aids and tools to help Richmond staff identify valid, compliant and cost effective purchasing contracts across city, state, and federal sources? As a city worker, I'm allowed to buy anything that says cooperative purchasing, uh, through, uh, of other agencies, which is term for any government, uh, are, are, are allowed. And then there's terms set for that. Um, so procurement decisions require less manual review while maintaining legal compliance and transparency. And for all UI enthusiasts that term legal compliance and transparency just lit you up because we all know that that is a high risk operation.
Speaker 1 (17:54):
We may start making high risk automation and operations there. We have danger, we have risk to the organization. Um, there are a few processes and I'm happy to elaborate on those. Um, but I wanna go through the constraints. So is everyone, everyone clear on what the problem statement is, right? We have to make purchases, we have to renew agreements, um, that may or may not be under the control of the city. Um, they may, the prices may have varied over time, especially in technology purchases, but commend the others prices swing wildly, uh, up and right. And so we have to make the right decision as to where the right place to procure is from. Um, the constraints of that, we, I'm sorry, is there another slide for this? Uh, no, I'm going through here. Um, that's a, then we'll go to our blue sky. We actually have very simplified, this is your problem statement, and then I'll give you constraints.
Speaker 1 (18:43):
And again, I think these should all be mapped in the GitHub. So if I miss something, please reference the GitHub repository. Your constraints. You must comply with procurement law and city procurement policies. There is no specific source of truth given there for you. So it is your obligation to find it. Um, I will tell you everything in government procurement is in the sunshine. We do everything publicly. They are accessible to you. Uh, you must support staff judgment rather than replace it. Um, I, again, I have to make decisions up to $500,000 I think on purchases when I make those decisions. There may be a judgment of less cost difficult to procure and implement greater cost, easy to procure and implement. You should take that into consideration. Um, you must work with existing contract repositories and document formats. Those are all within the GitHub repository. One of the bigger challenges of modern technology is to take a big long PDF and adjust that and say, here's what that PDF says. Here's your challenge, but you must work with those.
Speaker 1 (19:49):
Um, you must use publicly available or city accessible contract information. Again, if it was only city accessible. Mayor, how are you sir? Hi, interrupt. No problem. Um, so you must use city accessible contract information. Again, that's in the GitHub repository, but it's publicly accessible. Um, so everything in government procurement is done in the sunshine. You can go access that data right now if you choose to. Um, it must be scoped tightly enough for a weekend prototype. You, you could spend days, hours, and months, right, Dan on this problem and not come up with a working prototype. So you need to keep yourself focused within a small enough scope to achieve one of the success criteria, um, therein, okay, whether that's over the existing technology or applying more, what does success look like? Um, staff myself can more easily see which contracts are expiring or need review.
Speaker 1 (20:42):
Simply tracking that. A contract in city procurement is issued with a contract owner, which is an authorized buyer in the city, uh, someone like myself. And we are responsible for tracking when it will be renewed. What are the terms? Have the terms changed? Is it still in line with, with, with the RFP and is it still the best price for in the marketplace? That's a determination of success. Key procurement details are easier to extract from existing contract documents. This is another challenge. If you go through those hundreds of pages of a, of a government procurement contract, it may be very difficult and sometimes I swear, done purposely, uh, to locate just the term that expire return, which if we have a contract that we rely on a product or services, I don't know, snow melt during an ice storm, it might be problematic if we can't buy from that because it's expired.
Speaker 1 (21:32):
Um, departments spend less time manually scanning PDFs and databases. It's, it's a several day task. I just renewed one of our critical defense services the other day. It took me three days to get through all the contract materials to make sure the exact same purchase I made from the year before was still valid. It wasn't, believe it or not, that actually happens. Um, and the city reduces the risk of missed renewals or outdated contract use. This is that exact case is we almost pushed ourselves out of the ability to defend city technology infrastructure because a contract term changed and was amended from the original RFP in validated the contract. These are the challenges we face. This is the challenge you have to meet success. Um, there are a number of data sets available in the GitHub repository. Uh, our open, uh, contracts are available to you, um, uh, sam.gov, which is a database of all the, um, federal contracts and federally cooperative contracts, which were eligible to purchase from eva. Thank you, sir. Um, procurement data, OpenGov procurement portal. That's where our RFPs are stored. So you have to source the current contract from what was originally asked for, and they have to be a one-to-one match. If they don't match, then we have a problem. There's a hint. Um, and sample Richmond procurement, PDF. So in between contract R or RFP, contract, award notice, uh, price sheet, additional terms and conditions, you may have additional PDFs that we need to be able to ingest, reflect and make our jobs easier.
Speaker 1 (22:59):
So that's our problem statement. Um, some of the constraints. Any questions on the problem constraints? What does success mean? See, I told you this was gonna be the really boring one. So Your Honor, you showed up just in time to, to catch the, the, the, the fun one. 'cause city services I know is our bread and butter. Do you, do you guys do security review as part of procurement? Yes, it's actually Virginia State Code. Um, so again, if we go into constraints and success criteria, you are, we are obligated since 2022 to check the seven different lists published by the F-C-C-D-H-S-F-B-I, F-C-C-F-T-C and a missing one. You're probably familiar with this. Uh, to make sure they're not from a manufacturer prohibited from purchasing in the United States. And in this current fiscal year, we will see a turnover to any component cannot be made by one of those manufacturers. Essentially it's um, uh, state sponsors of terrorism we're prohibited from <inaudible>. That is one of the components we have to see contracts. So yes, we have to review every single one. Great question. Very informed, aren't you <laugh>? I dealt with it. Yeah, it's not fun. Any other questions on the problem, the constraints experience, anything like that? The data sets
Speaker 2 (24:10):
You mentioned, um, there's a scanning task that has to be, uh, done for various documents. Why is that? Is that, is there no digitization or,
Speaker 1 (24:22):
Uh, there that is sometimes the case. Um, there's actually specific purchases, and you have to forgive me, I'm not a procurement officer, but, um, there are specific circumstances where a wet signature is necessary. You cannot use a digital signature. Now, that's no longer the case. State code now allows for that, but it didn't when that contract originated. So the original RFP has a wet signature unless we have to digitize it before we can take action.
Speaker 2 (24:45):
Would it be fair to assume that majority of the scan documents still has, uh, additional information like text that is, uh, implemented via a computer instead of handwritten, you know,
Speaker 1 (24:59):
Email? I don't think that would be safe to assume. There are, there are contracts that are, that are live in not just the city, but also in GSA that predate such concepts. Oh, okay. Um, so there may not be, you're talking about just metadata flagging. So you can do easy certificate, right? That may not exist. It may be traditional OCR, uh, to your point, I believe most of them are gonna be flagged already, but I can't tell you that one authority.
Speaker 2 (25:23):
Okay, thank you. So
Speaker 1 (25:27):
The, so the contractors you mentioned like it's all PDFs. Is that like, um, I don't know, they're not all, uh, con Most of your, your signed contracts are gonna be PDFs, but check the GitHub repository to be short. There may be other formats available, web accessible formats, um, web accessible formats, things like that. You're gonna encounter a lot of images. Yeah, images there. The reason I ask is like, is it, what are other type of formats you have also? Yeah, it can be diverse. Um, you're, you're right to assume the majority are PDFs, but there are different plans.
Speaker 2 (26:01):
Thank you.
Speaker 1 (26:05):
Anything else? Okay, that's the fun one. I will say that the city of Richmond is not the sole per, uh, purveyor of needing such technology. I know this for a fact. <laugh>, so just thought I put it out there. So when you say prototype,
Speaker 2 (26:22):
Do you
Speaker 1 (26:23):
Have any constraint on the budgeting? Uh, no. There's no, there's no constraints for budget.
Speaker 1 (26:31):
Alright, so that's the end of our targeted problem statement. Um, now we get into what we call our blue sky. These are, I don't wanna say hesitate to say outside of the box, but these are really thinking big. Um, they have very limited constraints. There's very limited, there's not a direct ask here. They're ideas to inspire you to be creative. Um, the first of which I alluded to earlier, um, is our unified digital front door for all the city services. All of its representation, including those that may not be under the, um, the city of Richmond's charter, but maybe one of our Parker agencies. How can we create a unified digital front that would make it so in the future, someone can walk into city hall and there is a R 2D two that greets them and says, how can I help you? That's a easy way for me to describe it to you.
Speaker 1 (27:21):
You can envision this however you want. Um, delivery is entirely up to you. Um, but rather than a a, a collection of govern of departments all having their own methodology, one unified digital front door. This may, may or may not tie into some other of the problem statements, but it's just what we want to represent. Um, I always express this is, this is mine. Your anyone here is welcome to steal it, but understand that it was already kind of not well approved. Um, imagine if we, uh, deep baked an image of our mayor and put it on every digital in interaction at city hall and city facilities, and that Deepfake Mayor could interact with every single service we offer and be authoritative and give you the appropriate response and be able to take your feedback. That's the type of solution that we can pitch. Is it viable? I don't know. That's up to you all to determine, um, the next one. Any questions on that blue sky statement? How does that tie in with like not, you mentioned at the start, not adding additional service that employees have to maintain interaction. That's up to you.
Speaker 1 (28:27):
Um, better communication between Sydney and residents. This one, again, they can all kind of tie together. Um, my methodology is one for many, right? So you can come up with one solution solves many problems. There's there, but you can approach them independently. Um, how do we use technology to improve communication between Richmond residents and city Hall so people feel conformed heard and guided at every step? Um, I will be very honest that my estimate of a reasonable estimate about 90% of the city's business takes place between an individual like myself using an email to contact one of you. My, my written skills are not up to par. And my concept of a city resident may not be in full, um, in alignment with what, uh, the city should be doing. You may not feel well informed in that response. How can we make that better? And I'm not saying it has to be email, that's not a constraint here, but that's just an example of someone answering the phone may have had a bad day, pick up the phone and try to provide the best service they can on a Friday afternoon, <laugh> heading out the door and fail to meet what the resident that the visitor, the business needed. How can we use technology to make that better?
Speaker 1 (29:36):
Any questions on what better communication looks like? Um, I don't think there's good examples in the repository for the blue skies. I'm not, can't remember for certain. Um, but publicly available information. I would encourage you to chase down to that. Um, aligning employee tools with City Mission. Um, how can we, uh, take technology and improve the daily tools and interfaces city employees use so that way their work feels more connected to problem solving service and the mission of the city. We're government workers. We get hired to do a job and we do that job to the best of our abilities. But what we believe is the best of our abilities is that what the mayor's view of the best of our abilities is, is that the city's mission is that the, the citizen's view of the best way we can deliver those services. Our employees, about 2,800 or so, use the same productivity suite day in and day out.
Speaker 1 (30:28):
How can we get involved with that and make sure that they know what the the mission is every single day? Um, I have, I've, to be honest with you, is, is I've worked under three administrations since working city mayor bullets of office and said, here's your, here's your mission, here's on this piece of paper, this is what you are doing. We all have it up all over our desk because it's so clear and concise. And even that is difficult. We have routine communications with the administration. Our bosses are well informed and we still are. We doing everything every single day, every single email, every single phone call that aligns with the city's mission. So how can we make that better? How can any city make that better? Any questions on, on that ask? All right. Then lastly, um, making fiscal responsibility more visible. Um, how might we use technology to help residents understand how city resources are being used, what public investments lead to so the government feels more transparent and trustworthy?
Speaker 1 (31:24):
Like back to my original statement, I can tell you we make a lot of big purchases that I never thought we'd have to make when it comes to technology, when it comes to paving. Um, and we are faced at the, at the highest level, the mayor has a choice between the cost to pave two miles of road or introduce a new chat bot. That's a choice. And all of us, I I believe most of us here, our technologists or, or have some adjacency to, to technology, um, that's an easy choice. We, we see that, but that's a real consideration that has to be made. So how do we make that transparent in the decision making process? We've had 300 requests for paving this pothole single or a broken sidewalk, sorry, inside Joe. Um, and we've had two for a check bot. Okay. That, that one's pretty straightforward.
Speaker 1 (32:13):
We have every single resident asking for better pothole repair, more expedient pothole, and every single resident asking for lower taxes. How do we, how do you justify that decision making process? And I'm not just talking the highest levels. These decisions are made throughout the administration. That's the definition. And, and how do we make that transparent? How do we show that on a daily real time basis? We have open data forum. We, uh, the open data col, uh, collective through the state is available. All of our books are, uh, all of our, uh, purchasing all of our dollars are open to the, to, to the public. Uh, I'm actually the Foy officer for the Department of Information Technology. You wanna know how much we spent on any given project. I will provide you the documents and show you that very thing. But that's one of hundreds of decisions made on a daily basis. So how can we make it more transparent? Any questions on that one? That's it, that's what I had for you. Um, if there are any questions on approach, again, I kind of can answer some on the hackathon approach, but I may have to defer to go check with Ford. So if you have any questions on this pillar of these challenges, happy to answer them.
Speaker 4 (33:26):
Yes. You have a question as far as, um, I know the data sets you're saying use one to websites, but after talking to Shannon Paul, I believe, um, if there's an internal tool at, at the, at the hand, something like that where all the metrics are being provided mm-hmm <affirmative>. Is that something that you work with? If you provided metrics to before? And can you tell me a little bit about that?
Speaker 1 (33:51):
Um, Allison is published through RVFF, I believe. Okay. I think you can get to the, that's why we, we kind of made it simple on folks that through those two, you can get to everything we want you to work to and they may go to other places, but that's your source of authority.
Speaker 4 (34:05):
And is that, is your experience reporting to that then easy? Or do you report, do you have someone folks do that has reported directly to that
Speaker 1 (34:16):
Dashboard? Mm-hmm <affirmative>. Yeah, we, every city department for folks do that
Speaker 4 (34:19):
Dashboard. And is it something that it pings every department for
Speaker 1 (34:23):
Or Yep, it has workflows. Does all those things. Um,
Speaker 4 (34:28):
Thank, yeah,
Speaker 1 (34:29):
Certainly. Anything else?
Speaker 5 (34:35):
Wonderful.
Speaker 1 (34:35):
I really anticipate a lot more questions for somebody would be a plant and sneak one in. So, well anyways, uh, again, my name's <inaudible>. I'm the deputy director of for Strategy and cybersecurity, uh, the city of Richmond. This is really exciting to me. Um, we do this on a routine basis. Um, we brainstorm, we find out why we can't do something, we chase something and we get a win with three losses. Um, so I'm really encouraged to see what you all can bring to the table, not just for the city. Remember, these services might be available to our partners in the community, a community. Uh, a council member might want to pick this up and run with it for their district or all the districts. Maybe the state would really be interested, maybe other localities would be. Um, so I'm really excited to see what you all can do. Um, innovation is key. Um, so again, thanks for your time. Thank you.
Speaker 5 (35:27):
So
Speaker 1 (35:28):
Are they all working together or are they Um, I think we have a number of team. Yeah, we have a number of teams. Who's on a, who's on a team? And then do we have any individual contributors? We have one. I joined as a team, but then they're sick. Okay. <laugh>. And so, so the organizers were like, you're gonna join a different team. And I was like, oh, okay. So what are the teams? There's, I, I honestly don't know all the team. Are you? They're on the Slack channel. Okay, got it. There's a workflow
Speaker 2 (35:58):
You can sign up to be on the team. I don't know if they've, um, assigned the teams already. If, if so, you might want to reach
Speaker 1 (36:05):
Out to Rob. Yeah, I think you can. Everyone can see all the teams and I think they had to sign up for one of the fillers. So we should be able to see all the 1 0 1 and all that export. Yeah, I'm in the pillar. Okay. And then the mentor, actually I didn't, so are you.

